cats are cute squishy and fluffy this
makes it all too easy to get carried
away
and then in the blink of an eye you
cross the line and make your pet
uncomfortable or even afraid
don't leave your kitty alone for more
than 24 hours
lots of people adopt cats rather than
dogs because they're sure a cat can take
better care of itself
surprisingly even though felines are
more independent than pooches
they aren't loners leaving your cat
alone with enough food and water
won't do the trick if you go away for
several days
someone has to come and check on your
pet at least once in 24 hours
never force your unwanted attention on
your kitty
don't try to hold it or stroke it
against its will even if your pet
doesn't usually mind occasional cuddling
cats do like socializing with their
humans but they prefer doing it on their
own terms
and in much smaller doses than dogs
respect the needs and moods of your
fluffy friend
let your cat watch the outside world
even
indoor felines are interested in what's
happening out there
birds moving cars walking people
open the window shades and let your pet
sit near the glass
it'll stay entertained for hours
don't give your cat pieces of string or
yarn to play with
by no means is it safe for felines your
pet can swallow it
and the consequences can be very very
bad
certified cat toys are a much better
choice
pay attention to all the changes in your
cat's behavior
no one but you the pet's owner can
figure out that something's wrong
your kitty may stop eating it might
start to avoid people and other animals
or it can even begin to hit scratch and
bite your family members this might be a
sign that the cat feels pain
or some physical discomfort never leave
your indoor cat outside without
supervision
if your pet isn't used to being in the
street you can't predict its reaction
your fluffy friend might get curious or
it may feel confused and frightened the
last thing you need is a panicking cat
dashing into traffic don't try to make
your cat behave
by punishing it directly training a
feline
is very different from training a dog
telling your cat off may have
how shall i put it unpleasant
consequences
jingling coins in a can clapping your
hands or stomping your foot
to show your pet it's done something
wrong like you do with a dog
isn't going to work cats are super
sensitive to loud sounds
if you raise your voice or make a loud
noise your pet can get scared
then it'll start to avoid you with cats
what you perceive as
bad behavior can be healthy behavior
that doesn't have a proper outlet
so if your pet destroys your sofa just
get the kitty a scratching post
never ever back your cat into a corner
if you do this
it'll feel like there's no escape route
and then
even the most well-behaved animal can
lash out
plus your kitty might get nervous or
stressed out
or it can stop trusting you
don't try to dress your kitty up your
fluffy companion may look amazingly cute
in a bumblebee costume
but i bet your cat doesn't find it as
amusing as you do
such costumes are usually too
restrictive and the situation that may
seem funny at the beginning
can get out of hand really fast the
costume is likely to cut
normal blood circulation in your pet
[Music]
don't shave your cat unless the vet
tells you to do so
no one will probably argue that there's
nothing cuter than a kitty with a
lion-like haircut
but a feline's hair helps the animal
control its body temperature
thanks to their fur coat they remain
cool in the summer
and warm in the winter shave this
natural air conditioner
and you'll get a very unhappy pet
even though cats are known for their
uncanny ability to see in the dark
these animals don't like complete
darkness make sure your pet gets a lot
of light
both natural and artificial especially
if you have to leave for a long period
of time
staying alone in a dark house or
apartment can make your kitty
feel abandoned don't forget to brush
your cat's teeth
just like humans felines can have dental
problems
but you can easily avoid them try to
brush your kitty's teeny tiny teeth
once a day or at least several times a
week
this will keep the teeth and gums
healthy hand
play might seem fine for now
but not when your cat starts to pounce
on your hands once they're somewhere
nearby
it'll result in nasty scratches and
bites
felines are hard wired to chase and hunt
and wait in ambush
if you let your kitty know your hand is
something that can be hunted
there will be no stopping it just use a
toy or light cord to keep your pet
entertained
many specialists also don't recommend
teasing your pet with a laser pointer
it seems like a perfect toy but in
reality it can lead to your cat
getting frustrated because it can't
actually catch
a beam of light to avoid this problem
make some physical object or a treat a
part of the game
it'll give your kitty a sense of
achievement
never assume your cat is fine these
animals are skilled at masking
any problems they're having just like
people always be on guard
does your cat seem to be less energetic
than usual does it refuse to crunch its
favorite treats
is it too agitated something might be
wrong
don't let your kitty drink a lot of milk
felines do love its sweet taste
but cats and cow's milk don't actually
mix
these animals can't always successfully
digest milk
without getting sick afterward plus milk
is rather fattening
and your kitty can put on some extra
weight
make sure all plants in your home are
safe for cats
for example lilies which are rather
typical for flower bouquets
are super toxic for kitties or aloe vera
this plant is considered medicinal for
us humans but
it's bad for cats don't give your cat
only dry food felines can live in arid
places where they can only get water
from their food
that's why house cats don't drink enough
even when they're thirsty
dehydration can become a serious problem
in this case
but just one daily meal of wet food can
solve this issue
plus wet food is lower in calories
thanks to all that
water it contains never ever hold your
cat on your lap while driving
you never know what might attract your
pet's attention once it gets all
unruly and scratchy you can easily get
into an accident
letting your cat roam around the car
while you're driving isn't an option
either
while traveling with your pet always
keep it in a cat carrier
properly buckled don't free
feed your pet that's when a cat will
graze on food
whenever it feels like munching on
something it leads to overeating
and even obesity if you don't have an
opportunity to feed your kitty at
regular times
you can buy an automatic food dispenser
it'll give your cat portions of dry food
at the intervals that you set yourself
[Music]
don't forget to offer your pet fresh
grass but
only those kinds that won't harm the
animal eating grass helps felines with
digestion
and narrow grasses can even settle an
upset stomach
plus grass juice contains folic acid
that's a vitamin supporting your pet's
growth it also helps increase oxygen
levels in your cat's blood
never leave your windows fully open or
open enough
for a small and very flexible creature
to squeeze through
if you really must open the windows
check whether the screens are sturdy
and if they're in place but if you need
to leave home
make sure the openings aren't larger
than several inches
cats and hair balls seem faded to be
together
but keep in mind that if it happens
frequently it may be a sign
there's a problem also don't forget to
groom your cat
it's one of the most effective ways to
cut down on hair balls
and your kitty's fur will look great
experts say you should groom your cat
once or twice a day if it has long hair
and one to three times a week if you
have a short haired pet
don't forget to trim your pet's claws
both for your comfort
and the comfort of the animal for one
thing you won't scream
every time your cat decides to kneed
into your belly or leg
plus there won't be any broken claws and
hurt kitties
cats don't drink much but they do drink
and simply pouring out old water and
replacing it with fresh
won't do when you change the water for
your pet
don't forget to wash and scrub the bowl
first
then rinse it thoroughly this way you'll
remove
all kinds of unhealthy stuff like mold
from the sides of the bowl